 Our Shared Ground 

In s i d e  e a c h  OF us there is a noble heart. This heart is the source of our finest aspirations for ourselves and for the world. It fills us with the courage to act on our aspirations. Our nobility may be obscured at times, covered over with small thoughts or blocked by confused and confusing emotions. But a noble heart lies intact within each of us nonetheless, ready to open and be offered to the world. Our task—the task of this book—is to recognize this noble heart within us and learn to connect with it, to make it the basis of all that we do and feel. When we clear away all that blocks it, this heart can change the world.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, this is not a book about Buddhist theory or practice, but about our experiences as human beings. The shared ground that we meet on is our concern about our lives and our world. On that ground, we can meet as friends.
My formal study has been in Buddhist philosophy and religion, so I may use some Buddhist terms on occasion. But this is only because I have found them helpful in my own life, and hope they might also open up useful perspectives for you. Please do not take my words to be an authoritative representation of what the Buddhist texts say. I really am speaking from my own experience. I am now twenty-five years old. Since the time I was recognized as the Seventeenth Karmapa when I was very young, I have also been aware that I am carrying the nine-hundred-year-old reincarnation lineage of the previous sixteen Karmapas. But I see myself as a human being, not “the Karmapa.” I am just a human being with particular responsibilities and opportunities. I may have a unique role because I received the name and position of “Karmapa,” but we all have responsibilities based on what we receive from the world.
Although I have had extensive training in order to meet my  duties as Karmapa, my initial spiritual education came from my parents. This may be true for many of us. While my mother cannot read, she is sincere, affectionate, and loving. My mother and father were my first spiritual teachers. Our parents bring us into the world and raise us. No matter where we come from, as young children we were all cared for by meone—by parents or by other guardians. This is an experience we all share. We also share the same planet. We have been living on it together since we were born. We just had not been introduced to one another before. It is good that we can now meet through this book. This meeting of ours doesn't have to lead anywhere. I will be sharing my aspirations for the world with you in this book. If we recognize that we share many experiences and aspirations, that will be enough.
As we go through our lives, we all experience a great deal of change. Tremendous material progress is taking place everywhere around us, before our very eyes. We have all observed our own bodies growing rapidly from childhood, and as we mature we can watch ourselves continue to evolve. This physical development should be matched by mental development. Along with outer growth, we should also look for a deepening of our wisdom, and our ability to distinguish what is beneficial from what is harmful. Just as we can experience the bloom of our youth physically, we can also have an inner blooming of our heart and mind. We can bring this freshness of youth to the world. Later, we can also bring the ripening of our mature wisdom to it.
As we go through life, there is a great deal we can learn from one another. I have been touched by the genuine aspirations of many of the people I meet. I have learned from them. I have many hopes for the world, but I try not to have any expectations. Whether I can actually fulfill my aspirations or not, I wish to let them shape me and guide my actions in the world. Focusing on achieving results can make us too attached to our goals. Our dreams do not necessarily have to be fulfilled in order for us to be happy. Nurturing hopes is meaningful in and of itself. It is worth working toward them, regardless of the outcome. When we make this shift away from results, we will find greater courage to act on our aspirations for the world. We will find our nobility of heart.
Until now, we have been sharing this earth without recognizing that fact. Now, we can also share our hopes for our common home. We can have common aspirations for ourselves and for each other. We do not need anything more complicated than that. Sharing aspirations and experiences can bring us together on a basic human level. Just that can bring us happiness.
